hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstay.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski this episode of the smart
economy podcast is dedicated to the
upcoming East Denver hackathon and
Conference which is open to all and will
host multiple events taking place
February 24th through March 5th
2023. in this episode I chat with Derek
Coleman a community Steward at East
Denver East Denver is the largest and
longest running ethereum hackathon and
education-based Conference that takes
place in my state of Colorado I've had
the pleasure of attending in 2020 and
2022 and can't wait to attend again next
year Derek's path is similar to mine and
many others out there where before his
entrance into the blockchain space he
worked in a completely different
industry as a teacher and educator at
high schools in the California Bay Area
in this conversation we chat about
finding work in web 3 the types of
positions that Dao's most often need
filled the history of East Denver and
the types of projects that have Arisen
from past events fostering the community
that participates at East Denver the
hackathon and prizes available finding
teams to build with next year's new
venue and much more just a reminder
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Derek and I hope
you enjoy the conversation too
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we are joined by
Derek Coleman a community Steward for
East Denver how are you doing today
Derek I'm good how are you doing I'm
doing awesome we recently got connected
uh for the first time and there was a
lot of synergy and vibing going on so
I'm excited to have you on the podcast
not just because of kind of like the
alignment of Psych and energy levels but
also because I'm a huge fan of the
Denver I live here in Colorado I live in
Denver so to have such a premier event
so close to home that has such a global
impact is really kind of a source of
Pride for me so I'm excited to have you
join the Pod yeah it's my pleasure so
just to kind of like get a little
getting to know you out of the way when
was the first time you heard about
Bitcoin or crypto and what was it that
made you exit the browser tab on the
articles that you were reading oh wait
what do you mean by except the browser
tab because when I first heard about
Bitcoin I was a broke grad student in
2013 and I saw an article I was like oh
this is cool this might be worth
investing some time and funds into and
then I just exited the browser Tab and
didn't come back for another four years
oh I see yeah funny enough I'm
definitely of the 2020 2021 Bull Run
cohort I had not been paying any
attention to web3 or cryptography or
blockchain prior I'd heard of it of
course but not looked into it or
experienced it at all and then I found
out that my cousin who's an amazing like
artist sound wizard Busker during covid
was basically internet busking on
clubhouse the live audio platform that
had just launched at the time and
because you have to use your phone or at
least you did at the time but people
were really Limited in what they could
do is predominantly like party
line-esque conversations where people
are just talking over each other like a
Twitter space and he was able to set up
his eye rig and pump in his Looper and
his Reverb and live sample people's
voices and then turn them into loops and
then do fun like auto-tune singing on
top of what they had just said and just
create magical moments that were blowing
people away and so he's getting pulled
into all these rooms like oh you gotta
come talk to my Armenian friends you got
to come talk to my black people
professional advice club and then he
gets pulled into this Bitcoin room and
they're like yo let us tip you where's
your Bitcoin wallet and so they
onboarded him and once he started
telling me that he was getting paid in
Bitcoin to make weird sound Wizardry on
clubhouse I was like your mom and my mom
don't even begin to have an
understanding of how successful you are
they're like oh this kid he's in La he's
an artist I'm like he's 3008 and we're
2008 in terms of understanding what it
means to be an artist and to make money
and you know the modern day and age so
that's where I started doing my research
and then that was around the time I had
finished up being a high school teacher
and had some down time and was exploring
being a self-taught developer and
thought that helping out with open
source stuff or web3 projects seemed a
lot more friendly and approachable and
interesting than trying to get like an
entry-level job at Fang or what have you
and so I ended up joining raid Guild
shout outs to Ray Guild and they helped
onboard me and it's been down the rabbit
hole ever since that's super cool and I
want to dig into how you came across
raid Guild but I also want to learn a
little bit about what you were doing
before you were in the web 3 space so
you were an educator in the Bay Area so
where did you go to school what did you
study and what was it about teaching
high school students that made you want
to be in that field yeah I've always
been pretty technically interested I got
a physics major at Cal so that I could
just understand how things work it
wasn't even an engineering degree so it
wasn't even particularly useful but
after I got it I decided rather than go
into industry and rather than stay in
Academia and get a PhD I wanted to sort
of interact with people and use more of
my social skills and get to connect with
folks and more directly help them so
that's why I stayed and got my masters
there so I could have a credential to do
High School teaching I ended up staying
in the Bay Area and teaching at a school
called Lighthouse a K-12 School in
Oakland
and taught physics there at the high
school level for five years ninth grade
12th grade everything in between and
that Lit me up like my deepest passion
is empowering people through education
and giving them the skills and knowledge
they need to be able to live just
healthier lives with less suffering and
more excitement success so you know I
mean frankly I burnt out after five
years it was a pretty tough job even
though I deeply loved my students in
every day of it and ended up sort of
accidentally transitioning into web3
through a series of fortunate events and
even in my current role it feels very
similar because a lot of what I think
about is you know who is our community
what are their interests what are their
pain points are they feeling imposter
syndrome what kinds of resources do they
need do they need articles do they need
scholarships do they need mentorship do
they need just Community areas to Vibe
and feel less alone
so it feels very similar in a lot of
ways awesome and what were you teaching
when when you were a teacher were you
teaching physics yeah I exclusively
taught High School physics cool what was
kind of the vibe of the students talking
about crypto then because uh we're gonna
get into college Outreach and I went on
a college tour to talk about onboarding
into web 3 careers recently I've been
collaborating with universities here and
a lot of the students I've spoken with
none of them are brand new to the space
they were kind of like messing around
with nfts D5 crypto games when they were
15 16 17 so I'm wondering if you had a
finger on the pulse if any of your
students were talking about it in class
or maybe you overheard conversations in
the hallways not to my knowledge even
recently now that I'm in this role and
in this world I visited a buddy of mine
who's still a high school physics
teacher at a different School in El
Cerrito and came in and did basically my
hey everyone here's a little bit about
this industry and here's a little bit
about East Denver if you're curious to
come just let me know I'd love nothing
more than to help make it happen and
they were by and large
skeptical curious but it's by no means
something that's crossed the cultural
Zeitgeist to that particular part of the
world and population I don't think that
it's the kind of thing where like every
gen Z's in crypto like yes obviously the
younger you go more percentage-wide
across the world and across the country
that's the case but yeah in that
particular moment my sense was that
crypto is still being perceived as this
weird scammy thing and maybe you go buy
some Ethan coinbase but that's kind of
where it stops I don't think people are
yield farming or flipping nfts
interesting and so how did you kind of
decide when you're making this big
career shift that you're going to go
into Tech was it just like a Bay Area
thing or was there something particular
about like learning how to code maybe in
solidity or another language that kind
of called to you it was kind of a
two-part thing one was my own desire to
dig more into learning itself I really
enjoy the feeling of my brain being on
fire as it's grappling and it's you know
we call it the zone of proximal
development as the neurons are actually
beginning to experience myelination and
become stronger there's a real feeling
in your body when you're learning and
it's a real thing and that's just kind
of one of my favorite feelings in the
world so with my downtime I was learning
all kinds of stuff and JavaScript was
one of them and along the way I mean
it's funny right because I I've never
even though I'm in the one of the tech
hubs of the country for now I've never
really done anything in person to that
effect so it's always felt silly I've
always worked remotely whether it's in
like a Discord server for a Dao or now
full time with the Denver and sporked
out team I could be in Ohio or whatever
it doesn't matter that I'm in the Bay
Area none of my connections are actually
in the Bay area but I frankly did have a
bit of that like well I got my Physics
degree and then I hate to say it but I
had a bit of a those who can't do teach
and security of like am I even capable
of really getting in there and using my
own two hands to do some stuff or can I
just talk about it so I think I had
something to prove to myself and wanted
to explore that and that's what drew me
to the learning and then as for how I
actually got in and started contributing
if you're familiar with the
dunning-kruger effect you can imagine a
graph where the x-axis is how much time
you've spent learning something and the
y-axis is how much confidence you have
in your ability to do that thing and
there's a pretty common pretty Universal
phenomenon across all people where in
the beginning you don't know anything
and you know you don't know anything but
then as soon as you start learning it
rapidly has this steep slope and you hit
a giant Peak somewhere in the pretty
early stages where you're like oh my God
I'm learning so fast I'm growing so
rapidly I feel like I can really do this
I'm going to be a game changer I'm going
to be the next Steve Jobs here and I I
am very guilty of that it happens to me
all the time and honestly I embrace it I
think it really helps with the momentum
of getting over some of that imposter
syndrome in the early stages so I'm
actually a huge Champion for the
dunning-kruger effect like let's get in
there let's overestimate our ability so
that we can get in and move fast and
break things and learn enough to be
dangerous and so on I really am like a
champion of the Newbie in that sense and
then the rest of the curve is there's
immediately a steep decline where you
realize oh there's so much I don't know
I don't know what I don't know and then
it's a slow rise for the rest of time
like but you know what if I stick around
long enough I can learn it piece by
piece so in the beginning you're way
overblown in your confidence but like I
said I think that can be an asset
sometimes so in that space of I'm
learning JavaScript I'm learning about
web3 I'm learning salinity I'm doing
like one or two YouTube tutorials and as
soon as I get my npm set up and my vs
code I'm feeling like a software a
senior level engineer I'm like oh yeah
let me get in there I didn't want to
spend a year in tutorial help just
watching videos I wanted to actually
start contributing and even making money
and accelerate my learning with a team
of people in an actual context where I
felt useful so that's where I started
poking around and found raid Guild
through their Twitter account raid Guild
for anyone who doesn't know is a web 3
Dev shop it's a decentralized guild of
mercenaries ready to slay your web 3
demons clients come up real paying
clients and say I'm interested in
launching this type of adapt this type
of a project in the web3 space I'm going
to need the smart contracts the front
end the back end marketing support
Community Support we're a Full Stop Shop
and so they come up our cleric does a
design Sprint with them and makes a
proposal and then we pass it off to like
the monk to project manage and get
together a team of Warriors and wizards
and paladins depending on the
requirements of the project that's like
front end devs and smart contract devs
and so on and uh manage all this
basically as a nons in a Discord server
through the power of smart contracts
that let us coordinate in a more
trustless way like no one person ever
has all the money like from start to
finish we're able to work across time
zones across languages without knowing
each other's names or faces and produce
high quality work and get it done so I
was really impressed with the culture of
what I was seeing walked up to the front
door and said can I play no interview no
CV or resume they just started
onboarding me like here's what a dow is
here's a smart contract join this down
let's do a little vote let's distribute
some money among your cohort and shout
outs to Tay taykicks was onboarding us
and just has such a strong mind for
creating community and being attuned to
what people need to know and titrating
that so much of trying to join this
space is an overwhelming flood of
information that makes you feel alone
even when you try to join a community or
a Discord server a lot of servers are
guilty of that click this green check
mark to accept our rules and suddenly
you can see a hundred channels and it's
overwhelming so I appreciated Tay's
thoughtfulness and the onboarding
experience there yeah that's really cool
that I noticed you were using words like
Monk and Wizard and cleric guilds are
kind of like a long running thing in the
Internet space when it comes to gaming
it's an agglomeration of individuals who
come together to kind of like connect
and figure out ways to best progress
their team and I think that that's
something that's really cool that's kind
of translated did into this
decentralized Anon sort of community
building way that is web3 so I guess I'm
also a little bit curious it sounds like
you stumbled in in the right place in
the right time what would be your
suggestion for someone who's listening
to this right now and maybe they're
burnt out in their career because that's
how I felt before I got into the
blockchain space I was very burnt out on
urban planning and I was looking for an
exit but I didn't know what that was I
just knew that I wanted to be in
something that interested me and that I
wanted to rock on a daily basis and just
kind of like learn about something that
feels like a never-ending ocean that is
crypto web 3 blockchain so your origin
story sounds like you got a little bit
lucky if somebody's looking for their
Exit Plan what are some sort of tips or
suggestions that you would make for ways
to go about finding these types of
communities yeah I'll answer that in two
parts one to give like a more slightly
more honest and detailed version of how
my onboarding at raid Guild played out
because I think that's valuable and then
the second is like a more generalized
here would be my advice I walked into
raid Guild and claimed to be a front-end
Dev even though I did not know a lick of
react and so I'm sitting there in the
Discord trying to do real client work
which you know I'm on the hook to
deliver and get paid hundreds of dollars
for and in that moment of crashing down
from my dunning-kruger confidence down
to the reality that I'm brand new here
and don't know how to do this and don't
want to make the whole Guild that's been
so kind to me look bad folks like
scotropreneur or
um JP or Tay or makter would come into
that you know sort of hacking channel
that we have it's public and join me and
say hey Derek welcome how's it going
what you working on and I'd admit like
I'm totally lost I don't understand why
I can't just declare this variable and
they'd be like do you not no how hooks
work in react for managing State and I
was like no I don't and they were like
okay yeah here's how it goes you do left
bracket no the square bracket and we're
walking me through it step by step and
that actually was the moment I realized
that I was in the right place because
for there to be this attitude of people
that had so much more knowledge and
wisdom in me of being willing to just
take their time out of nowhere and give
me that kindness and patience and
generosity of spirit to help me out and
build me up so that I could be a
contributing member of The Guild one
step at a time it was really powerful to
me and it felt like a real a really
supportive environment and I would later
realize that my experience was not
unique I think the open source ethos is
not just for what we create it's not
just let's create a code base that could
potentially help thousands or tens of
thousands of people like the open source
industry creates billions of dollars a
year of value none of which for the most
part is captured and that's why you know
folks like Kevin owaki are working on
creating new incentive mechanisms to
support folks creating that stuff but
it's also sort of an ethical cultural
spiritual dimension of our industry I
think people have this heart of being
open source and being kind and generous
and being willing to just share not only
their code but their time and their
knowledge and their wisdom and their
patience so that was the turning point
for me where I realized oh this is the
kind of place I could be for the Long
Haul where I could be vulnerable where I
could really learn and ask for support
and give it I want to be a part of this
community so that was my in and I wanted
to share that story because I think
anyone who's on the cusp of the rabbit
hole looking down feeling like if I
start falling I don't know what's going
to happen I feel like I'm gonna crash I
think if you find the right communities
and start poking around and finding your
tribe do then you'll probably be
pleasantly surprised because I've heard
stories a lot like mine time and time
again the second part of my answer is
more so in relation to where do I start
like at a more maybe tactical level
the three positions that I consistently
see Dows and organizations having a hard
time hiring for in other words where
there's a lot of demand are smart
contract development keep it simple
learn solidity there's a lot of other
options that are great but I would
recommend for example Patrick Collins
free code Camp 32-hour tutorial if you
do nothing else just start to finish
that tutorial you'll literally be ready
to walk into any industry level team
understand their code base and start
contributing so just plug away at that
piece by piece if you do that and only
that you're good to go and if you want
help with it come to discord.gg
sportdown and we can talk about it
because we've been going it through it
too slowly as a community because you
know the old African proverb if you want
to go fast go alone if you want to go
far go together so I and many others
like me are here to support you if
that's interesting number two position
front end front end is not going out
style so if you know react or thinking
about learning react through a boot camp
or some self-paced self-taught resource
I think you can learn it for free I
don't think you should spend tens of
thousands of dollars on a boot camp
personally the dirty secret of web 3 is
to transition from being a web 2 front
end Dev to a web 3 front end Dev takes
like one weekend of learning how
ethers.js works because you just import
that library and start using all of its
methods like dot connect to wallet and
Dot send transaction and you're done so
the front-end side like again here's my
Peak Dunning Kruger is not that hard to
learn if you know how to make a website
making a web 3 website is very similar
however it requires a lot of fundamental
shifts in how you think about websites
and databases and data and what's public
and private and how you handle things
like authentication that's a whole mind
change but I do think that it's a pretty
easy transition at a at a learning level
and then the third one for my
non-technical friends like me that are
not coming in hot like I'm ready to code
for it hours a day I'm more so in that
how can we set up an intentional
community that has supported Vibe how
can we curate and create some resources
or spaces for folks to connect around
whatever our the values are Community
managers or Community stewards are super
in demand I'm not kidding if all of your
skill set is creating digital spaces
where folks can Vibe and to nurture that
almost like a digital campfire of sorts
where folks gather around the Hearth and
feel good times and listen to music and
screen share video games and these kinds
of things then that's the 21st century
skill set of being able to support
nearly every organization with their
core need which is to engage and Foster
relationships among the people that are
a part of the community for a lot of
decentralized apps apps that's the users
who in our like tokenized world are also
the owners or the governors of whatever
it is so you know in a web 2 model you
just got like your customers or your
users and they don't need to know each
other for you to profit but in web3 it's
much more of an existential necessity to
facilitate folks coming together and
bonding so learning the community
manager skill set even though they're in
our space that playbook's still being
written day by day I think there's a lot
that we can learn from you know
Community building's been going on for
tens of thousands of years right so I
think in some ways we're Reinventing the
wheel and learning in a post-covered
world where a lot of us are working
remotely how to
skeuomorphically Bridge things like
eating together okay now we've got maybe
a digital happy hour or things like a
cocktail event where you get to just
chat and Float around the room how can
we create that in a digital space
because naively if you just do a voice
chat or a zoom room or a Google me well
if there's no way for us to physically
move closer to or further away from each
other that's different and the medium is
the message so you're going to get
different kinds of interactions so I
think people really giving the thought
and attention to how am I going to
design like from an interior design
perspective almost how am I going to
create spaces and decorate them and set
them up and communicate them in such a
way that I hopefully Foster the kinds of
interactions that are the best for this
community yeah that's really cool that
you lay out the kind of three different
ways in which somebody can onboard into
web3 and I really like that you super
highlight the kind of community building
aspect because you're right for all of
humans existence we existed in this meat
space but now we're learning how to
collaborate asynchronously and this is
kind of a paradigm shift for Humanity
and the ways that we get to work
together I also really appreciate that
you covered the breadth of what skills
that people can offer I remember when I
was looking for my exit plan all I knew
was that I could write and convey
Concepts and that is the skill set that
I leveraged into kind of having my
day-to-day role in the blockchain space
that I have now and I'm actually really
excited to kind of dig in to the
opportunities that you're going to be
providing to students who are currently
in school very interested in the space
looking for their way to kind of get
their hands dirty and to start building
but before we go into that I do want to
paint a little bit of context for the
realm in which these kind of benefits
are going to be offered so so you're a
community Steward at East Denver could
you just share with me what East Denver
is and what does a community Steward do
Keith Denver stands for ethereum Denver
ethereum's the second most famous second
largest cryptocurrency behind Bitcoin
and its revolution was to allow you to
execute code on top of the blockchain so
now we have Smart contracts where you
can do arbitrary logic to move around
either eth or you know at this point
erc20s and erc721s so we get folks
together every year in February to back
and we call it biddling just like
Bitcoin has hoddle we have on ethereum
you can Biddle you can build things
so we Biddle stuff during Denver and
create all kinds of prototypes and
mock-ups and and projects that very
often go on to become you know either VC
backed or go to community and launch
their token and become like some like
one inch started at East Denver
interesting and uh mole looked out
started eat Denver and raid Guild
started Eve Denver it's a real launching
point for folks to just meet as
strangers often and then come together
around a cool idea and then it becomes
like their baby their startup so I
highly recommend if anyone's crypto
curious that you come to East Denver
2023 at the end of February early March
it's free to attend always will be if
you want to check it out go to
eatthedenver.com if you're ready to sign
updenver.com apply and if you think you
might need some support reducing any
Financial barriers we're offering
scholarships to folks that need it most
that's denver.com scholarships and if if
you have any questions or reservations
just hit us up discord.gg sporked out or
twitter.com ethereum Denver or find me
because truly and this is also
implicitly answering your question
what's a community Steward my job is
just to help folks it's almost like a
developer relations or developer
Advocate position but without any
particular protocol or product or
service that I'm trying to convince
people to use I just want to understand
what folks hopes and dreams and
aspirations are and where they're at
today and what barriers they see between
where they are today and where they're
trying to go and what I can do to help
remove those barriers I spoke earlier
about you know our on the community team
side of Youth Denver our mission
statement is to provide the educational
financial and social resources to
empower folks to Biddle the
decentralized future so whatever I can
do to give you what you need to do
whatever you're trying to do and dream
big that would really fulfill me and I
want to tap more into that but I do want
to just ask one more question because
I'm such a proponent and fan of East
Denver what separates this event from
other not only just ethereum events
globally but just every other blockchain
and crypto conference event in general
what really makes East Denver special
well if Denver's going into its sixth
year so that's exciting it grew very
organically out of the Denver Colorado
blockchain Meetup scene and naturally to
meet the pace and demand for folks just
coming together and connect and
understand more about this blossoming
industry
some other things that make it unique
it's free to attend and always will be
really aims to be newbie friendly and we
care a lot about onboarding and as a
little bit of alpha we're going to be
offering a program called Camp Biddle
it's a boot camp-esque opportunity for
folks that are brand new to web3 to sign
up to be there and it's about a 10-day
program that'll take you from Zero to
Hero with the intention of getting you
ready to contribute during the
bittleathon to your first project and
successfully submit something and be
proud of yourself and maybe win big
we've got over a million dollars already
in prizes on the table but the main
thing I think people would say other
than being Giant and chaotic and like
the place to be or some things I've
heard is that we're weird and quirky and
I really appreciate like it being an
extension of what vitalik has done with
ethereum from the very beginning which
is to create a culture in a community
where being weird and wearing pajamas on
stage is okay and having weird hair or
being kind of grungy or crusty or Punky
it's just everything's welcome here you
know you don't need to wear a suit and
tie to come to East Denver and so we're
a lot of people's first web 3 event for
all those reasons that's something I
take to heart I'm I'm really grateful
that people would trust us to be the
transition for them from I've never done
this before to I'm going to try and
check it out yeah and and that you can
just let your freak flag fly and and be
accepted I think is something that is
not only just valuable in this internet
culture that we're combining kind of
like our everyday lives with a new sort
of income stream but also to be able to
to Vibe and mesh with people in person
that are just like you is great I would
also be remiss not to mention we have
really good memes like East Denver has a
lot of mascots like we have the
bufficorn which is the strength of the
Buffalo and the magic of the unit corn
and we have the spork which is the tool
of choice for biddlers everywhere The
Humble instrument that can do whatever
it needs to do without being
ostentatious this coming year is the
year of the spork so expect Spork
imagery and literal like last year we
had rainbow sporks I'm sure you're fine
I'm looking for it right now yeah and so
to like be a biddler who's a bufficorn
using a spork to Biddle the
decentralized future like it's a
mouthful and it makes no sense when I
explain it to my family at Thanksgiving
but it's just fun to just like raid
Guild with its Dungeons and Dragons
theming it's fun to be in a space where
instead of saying things like hey who's
a front-end Dev I need help on this
project it's like I need a warrior for
this raid like you say the same idea but
just have more fun with it and so in
that way I think eat Denver excels at
having like a a cultural Vibe of being
weird and cozy and welcoming and cutesy
our main brand colors are pink and
purple I told that to a friend of mine
and they rolled their eyes and they were
like so Millennial I was like well
yeah no it really is a super funny vent
and when you're walking around it was at
the sports castle for the past five or
six years this year it'll be at a new
venue but when you're just walking
around the Sports Castle you can just
kind of feel the vibe just emanating
from everyone who's there yeah 100
another thing that is I think not yet
well understood but profoundly different
not only between Denver and other web 3
events but between East Denver and I
mean it's it's sort of the only example
I can think of of what it is is that
over the past year we have successfully
passed legislation in the state of
Colorado
to allow East Denver and Sport down more
generally to form a limited Cooperative
Association where membership in The
Cooperative is represented by an erc20
token called spork
and so you are a member when you come to
East Denver in our airdrops fork for
free for attending volunteering speaking
fiddling mentoring judging sponsoring
buying merch Etc you actually are a
Cooperative member of the thing we all
the community that attends are the
Cooperative that is in some ways
responsible for stewarding the
flourishing of The Ether ecosystem and
everything's worked I was trying to do
into the future and in particular we
recently launched our Ventra arm called
buffacorn Ventures because we wanted to
be able to invest in some of the
projects that come out of the billathon
like we saw one inch come and then
become super successful and said well
frankly we should be able to support
projects like this that clearly have
success in their in their sites so we
launched this year we've already got a
couple dozen portfolio companies that
we're supporting every day and that's
absolutely wild to me because do you
know who's going to profit if and when
any of these portfolio companies really
blossoms into something super useful in
our ecosystem do you know who actually
is the not actually but by analogy
shareholder equivalent of the success of
all these projects it's sporkholders
it's everyone that's ever attended youth
Denver or contributed to value in our
ecosystem is actually going to get an
airdrop and so to really grock that
simply by attending much less fiddling
or volunteering or what have you you are
contributing value not only in an
abstract conceptual sense but being
acknowledged for it and given this erc20
that represents yes we see you we
appreciate you being here and you are
now a part of how we are becoming the
thing we're becoming this is not value
being extracted and stuck to the Top
This is now a collaboratively managed
community and we need you to take part
in nurturing it that's super cool is
this built off of the foundations of the
work that Obelisk has been putting forth
over the past few years yeah John power
is the founder of opolis and co-founder
of ethanver and with the work of amazing
lawyers like you have much Nick been
able to push through or support drafting
The Cooperative law I referred to a
moment ago so we're actually pioneering
the legal framework to be able to do
this crazy live action experiment in
real time that we're trying out here
shout out to yev she helped uh
incorporate our business to operate a
validator node for the Neo Network it
was great to work with her he has a
Powerhouse yes absolutely so I hadn't
learned much about the kind of venture
arm of we'll just call it the spork Dao
I suppose so let's tie this back to the
type of people we want to apply for
scholarships to East Denver and the type
of biddlers we want to have come join
the event how does sporked out go about
incubating projects that arise out of
East Denver most investment
organizations have like a mandate or a
focus and ours is on projects that are
predominantly public goods that are
going to onboard books to the web 3
space we don't tend to prioritize
amazing projects that focus on users
that are already in the web 3 space and
we don't tend to focus on projects that
have like a private good profit motive
those are wonderful they're just not our
lane and our specialty so a public good
for folks who are not familiar with the
term is something which is
non-competitive like multiple people can
use it and it doesn't make it worse for
anyone and inexhaustible where it'll
still be there after people have used it
an example would be like a public park
or a public library or access to clean
air like we can all breed the Clean Air
to a point you know there's like the
free rider problem and certain things
that need to be managed to like take
care of the public good or open source
software for example is another great
example So to that end we look at
projects that come through our
bittleathon and also other bittleathons
we're not that exclusive or you know if
you came up with a really cool idea
somewhere else we're still going to have
a conversation and say what are you
trying to do who's trying to serve and
like what's a win for you and if the
answers are we're trying to create a
platform or a protocol or some kind of
public good that's going to allow more
folks to do something they already need
to do in a better way maybe the web
three parts totally on the back and it's
invisible like social stack for example
is trying to take a crack at the micro
economy of like a local currency and
sort of extend the familiar customer
reward program type things that you
experience at checkout but how can we do
it in a way where multiple merchants in
an area can use the same thing and that
might even be like a City Coin or
something that has this more fluid form
of actual value in the context of a
local economy it sounds ambitious but
this is something already being piloted
outside of web 3 in lots of places
especially as we try to make sure we
have like a stable decentralized
Financial infrastructure more generally
to be able to to weather any shocks that
might happen globally in our communities
so projects like that get us really
excited because they're going to solve
real problems for real people and use
web3 to do it and so if the byproduct of
that is onboarding more folks so much
the better so I want to start Shilling
the bidlothon and just kind of share
information with anyone who's interested
particularly students because you did
mention that there are scholarships well
let me take a step back I believe many
others believe in a multi-chain future
and ethereum Denver East Denver is
acknowledging that so a lot of the
sponsors for the biblathon are also
alternative l1s so could you just share
some insights and information about the
other L ones that are that are there
what kind of bounties they're providing
and how can somebody who wants to Biddle
for their first time what can they
expect when they just show up at East
Denver and they see all these l1s how do
they decide which ones to build on and
what are those l1s doing to kind of
foster that sort of development from the
biddler perspective the bittleathon or
hackathon experience is typically a sign
up receive some communication about
deadlines and Logistics like what
platform you're going to use and then at
a certain point you gain access to
whatever the main prizes are we call
them track prizes and then any
additional bounties that the sponsors
themselves are offering where you could
go for a main prize and a bounty or
maybe even several bounties if you're
using whether it's uh like a chain link
API or some you're building on a
particular L1 and deploying there these
sponsors want to incentivize new
biddlers creating their projects in a
way that is like positive some with
their existing ecosystem and basically
they throw a lot of money at helping
folks do do that and so from the biddler
experience you do your best to learn
about the options that you have and
Cobble together some bounties that make
sense in the context of the idea that
you have and submit and hope for the
best but from the sponsor side one thing
I've learned after getting to talk to a
bunch of these folks is that that's only
the beginning because if you're an L1 or
even if you're some kind of other
protocol hoping to integrate with folks
daps the Bounty is just the introduction
here's a thousand dollars five hundred
dollars sometimes up to ten thousand
dollars to try to really strongly
incentivize you to take a look at what
we're doing here and decide whether you
want our thing to be a core part of your
thing from the beginning but they don't
want it to stop there they don't want to
be throwing thousands of dollars at
projects that are just going to move on
to go back to their life or go back to
college or what have you they're really
hoping that these Founders take these
projects and nurture them for the long
run and they back up that hope a lot of
folks folks don't realize their first go
around to bidilathon that post
bittleathon if you've built something
interesting you're going to get VCS
knocking on your door and if fundraising
seems too intimidating then there's also
especially for layer ones a really rich
ecosystem of Grants and accelerators and
incubators where you could take your
project you made over the course of two
or three days and commit to maybe eight
weeks of building it at a more
reasonable Pace finally getting to some
of those features on your roadmap that
you thought you were going to be able to
knock out in two days until the
debugging kicked in and build it into a
working prototype version of what you're
talking about so that when you give your
next pitch you can say that we've
already got a few thousand active users
we've already got this much value
flowing through our system we anticipate
this kind of growth and that puts you in
a pretty strong position to be able to
either bring on some seed round money or
apply for an incubator these kinds of
things so when I say just show up just
show up to Youth Denver or some other
web 3 event just participate even if you
think you don't know enough and your
background is graphic design and figma
where your background is just creating a
strong presentation that's my superpower
I just make a good presentation I'm not
a very good dad frankly but that's
enough to meaningfully contribute to a
lot of teams and you'll find that if you
had an interesting idea and communicated
it in a clear way you're going to have
people knocking at your door and begging
you to keep working on it because it's
positive some for them and what they're
trying to do so I highly encourage folks
to consider the possibility that if you
show up and meet a team of strangers
that you might actually by the end of it
end up in a situation where you're
winning more than you expected and then
the team is suddenly like this is our
startup now because that was my
experience I recently attended near con
beta in Lisbon Portugal I showed up and
met three Germans in a Spaniard it
sounds like a knock knock joke and we
put together a project and long story
short we got third place out of 100
projects and won thousands of dollars
and suddenly it was like oh this is real
who's gonna keep working on this and
then we rolled that over into the next
eight week version of the thing and
recently submitted for that wish us luck
so there's a a very clear path once you
start taking it one step at a time to
continuing to play and Biddle and just
kind of see what makes the most sense
for your project and your goals
oftentimes when I'm speaking with
someone who's interested in building
whether it's online or in person one of
the consternations that I hear is I have
an idea but I don't know how to go about
finding people so could you maybe share
just a little bit of your insights what
are the two ways that you can go about
finding people either a online or B when
you just show up to one of these
conferences and you look for a team what
are just some sort of insights or tips
or tricks that you might have finding
people to support you in biddling an
idea you have is very challenging and
the difficulty there is one of the main
reasons folks come in with good
intentions about contributing and then
have a harder time connecting than they
expected and end up not really
participating or submitting by the end
of it and so that's something we put a
huge amount of attention and effort into
supporting with explicit curated
communicated team formation sessions
channels and our Discord where you can
talk to each other a template where it's
like put your name put your skill set if
you've got an idea how many people are
on your team we want to make it really
clear because we know that it's
overwhelming to step into an event with
upwards of tens of thousands of people
and just scream into the void hi my
name's Derek I can't even really code
and I need some people to help me with
my cool idea I had in the shower
yesterday like that's a strange thing
for somebody to do if they've never done
it before and we know that so we want to
again be newbie friendly be conscious of
the onboarding experience titrate it in
a way where each step feels like it
makes sense isn't too scary and is
really clear go here say this in this
way look for these types of responses
and you know how people work if you give
them clear rules and expectations and
structure they can play we build the
sandbox and all you gotta do is show up
and start making your castles yeah
that's some really good advice and it
also melds the kind of meat space and
the digital space where you can kind of
come up with some ideas and Concepts and
then share it with folks in a Discord
server and then maybe meet up in person
or when you get to an event in person
there are people like you that just kind
of like lead for folks into the right
direction so thanks for for sharing some
more insights about that we did mention
scholarships and you did mention that
there is support for students so what
are the scholarships what's out there
like if I'm a student from the
University of Michigan and I'm just
hearing about this on this podcast but I
don't have money for a flight or for a
hotel or I'm wondering about how I'm
gonna eat when I'm at the event what
sort of support is available through the
scholarship program if you're looking to
attend East Denver or thinking about it
and one of the main barriers for you
would be the cost of travel or housing
because again it's free to attend we
provide free food and beverage free
access to mentors to help you get your
project across the finish line but we
know that Financial barrier is a is a
major one for a lot of folks especially
younger folks so we have the East Denver
scholarship program that you can find at
ethanver.com scholarships and we did
some research with folks like the kinds
of folks we want to make sure it can get
there and ask what their main barrier
was and resoundingly the answer was
housing just having a place to sleep at
night ends up being a huge money sink
for folks and so that's why this year at
our new venue we're going to be piloting
our first try at providing hundreds of
beds for biddlers and other folks that
we want to make sure can get there to
just have a place to set their stuff
down it's going to have security it's
going to have its onboarding and rules
and regulations and all that and it's
going to be a bit of a grungy hostile
Vibe if you will the type of folks that
are like listen I don't need some
five-star hotel I just need a safe place
to set my stuff down and sleep and
that's right next to the venue so that I
can wake up walk in have my coffee and
keep fiddling if that sounds interesting
to you to have a free place that's right
next to the venue to be able to meet
folks and connect and minimize your
commute and maximize your experience
then check out youth denver.com
scholarships we would love to have you
apply being a planning an architecture
nerd it was awesome to see a historic
building in Denver be used for the
previous years this will be the first
year in 2023 that the event is being
hosted elsewhere uh which will be at the
National Western Stock Show which is
also a prominent place of importance to
the Colorado region it's where a lot of
our agricultural Farmers go to market
their cattle and other sort of farming
equipment it serves as like a large
Convention Center for that so while
we're not going to see the same kind of
love for historic architecture there's
still Regional importance to the
facility that's going to be used so
before we wrap up could you just share a
little bit about what the differences
will be in the new facility and what can
folks expect at the new Landing place
for East Denver 2023 we're sad to have
outgrown the Sports Castle it has served
us very well and become a staple like
you can see in our nft set the buffcorn
Biddle Brigade The Sports Castle is one
of the backgrounds it will always be a
part of our DNA which is why we're
calling the new venue the National
Western Spork Castle again it's the year
of the sport little Alpha we might do
some interesting stuff with the facade
and the entrance and a lot of decoration
internally to pay homage to the sports
castle and not lose sight of Our Roots
and I just got off a call earlier this
morning where we were talking about how
next to the biddler area there's a stage
we're gonna make sure is like highly
curated stuff to support folks with
their front end with their pitch
practice and so on and that stage has
not only the doors you go in for the
seating but directly into the stage
itself are these two larger sliding
doors that are where you're meant to
bring your cows in and put them on stage
and then bring them back out it truly is
a place where people show off their
livestock so this is just a grungy venue
we knew we needed to grow into a place
that could reasonably handle tens of
thousands of people and we didn't want
like some super corporate Conference
Center because again that's not our DNA
so we're going with the national winner
Western sport castle and we're going to
do a pig that's super exciting one of my
first jobs out of college was a
canvasser and uh I actually canvassed on
behalf of affordable electricity inside
of the the National Western Stock Show
during one one of these major stock
conventions so I personally can't wait
to to go to the event and to see how
I've grown professionally from my first
days out of grad school to where I'm at
today so I can't convey enough how much
I want people to come join this event
and to get a little taste of the culture
here in Colorado of blockchain culture
of ethereum's culture and of the growing
web3 space so if people want to register
for the event where do they go and if
people want to get in contact with you
how do they reach out to you if you want
to learn more check out youthdenver.com
apply and if you want to get in touch
with us the easiest ways are to join our
community at discord.gg sportdow and try
our new onboarding flow through Tavern
keeper one of the projects that came out
at Denver this year
and if you're interested in the
scholarship you can check out youth
denver.com scholarships I also encourage
you to check us out on Twitter at
twitter.com forward slash ethereum
Denver where we do a lot of our
announcements and Alpha leaks
applications are open now when do the
applications close we respond to them on
a rolling basis it takes us about two
weeks per wave and the earlier you get
yours in the better because uh when it
comes especially to things like
volunteering or mentoring or judging or
speaking these types of we call them
contributor roles we've process them
chronologically so if you're even
considering coming I encourage you to do
it ASAP well I'm gonna register once we
hang up off this call I really look
forward to running into you in person at
East Denver thank you so much for coming
to show Colorado Shelly Denver kind of
share a lot of the opportunities that
are out there for future biddlers and to
kind of inspire the Next Generation
it was great to to meet you it was great
to have you on the Pod and I can't wait
to run into you in person and host you
on another podcast episode in the future
yeah thanks for having me Dylan it's
been a pleasure cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was really
cool to hear about the ways in which
folks can onboard into the web 3 space
and how to go about finding communities
to build with I also enjoyed learning
more about the spork Dao limited
Cooperative Association that was
established here in Colorado and how
members are represented by Spork tokens
and it was awesome to hear about the
scholarship opportunities that are
available to incentivize students to
participate the event and hackathon
don't forget if you're interested in
attending East Denver registration for
2023 is now open on that note I want to
thank you so much for taking the time to
listen to the smart economy podcast if
you liked what you heard and want to
support the show please keep Neo news
today in mind when voting for your Neo
Council representative as part of Neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
look forward to catching you next time
[Music]